README.md, before:

# LoreSmith

LoreSmith is a lightweight campaign management tool for tabletop RPG Dungeon Masters. It is built in **Python** using **Streamlit** and developed iteratively using **Agile Scrum practices**.

The goal of LoreSmith is to provide a structured way to manage campaign elements such as NPCs, factions, session logs, relationships, and narrative timelines, while delivering value incrementally through short development sprints.

---

## Features (Planned)

- NPC management (create, view, edit, delete)
- Faction management and character associations
- Session logging and tagging
- Filtering and search
- Relationship visualization
- Campaign timeline view
- Persistent local data storage

---

## Tech Stack

- Python
- Streamlit
- GitHub Projects (Agile backlog and sprint tracking)

---

## Development Approach

LoreSmith is being developed as part of a graduate-level Agile Software Development course. The project follows Scrum practices, including:

- User role modeling
- User stories with acceptance criteria
- Story point estimation (Fibonacci scale)
- Backlog prioritization (quantitative + qualitative)
- Sprint planning and reviews
- Velocity tracking and burndown charts
- Iterative releases

The focus of this project is not only the working software, but also the disciplined application of Agile principles and artifacts.

---

## Status

Active development – Sprint 0 (Setup & Backlog Creation)

# Contributing to LoreSmith

LoreSmith uses a lightweight Git workflow designed to support Agile development while protecting production stability.

## Branch Strategy

### main

- Production branch.
- Streamlit deployment is tied to this branch.
- Always stable and demo-ready.
- Protected: requires Pull Request and 1 approval.

### dev

- Integration branch for the active sprint.
- All completed stories are merged here first.
- Used to test feature integration before release.
- Protected: requires Pull Request and 1 approval.

### feature branches

- All development work occurs on feature branches.
- Branch naming convention:

    feature/<short-description>

    Examples:
    - feature/create-npc
    - feature/edit-npc
    - feature/db-connection

Feature branches are created from `dev`.

---

## Workflow

1. Create a feature branch from `dev`.
2. Implement the story.
3. Open a Pull Request into `dev`.
4. Obtain 1 approval.
5. Merge into `dev`.
6. When the sprint is complete and `dev` is stable:
    - Open a Pull Request from `dev` into `main`.
    - Obtain 1 approval.
    - Merge to release.

---

## Definition of Done

A story may be merged into `dev` only when:

- All acceptance criteria are satisfied.
- Code runs locally without errors.
- Database changes (if applicable) are documented.
- Tasks in the issue are completed.
- Another contributor has reviewed and approved the PR.

Only stable, demo-ready increments are merged from `dev` to `main`.

---

## Commit Guidelines

- Keep commits small and focused.
- Write meaningful commit messages.
- Do not commit secrets or credentials.
- Use Streamlit secrets configuration for sensitive values.

## Pre-Commit Hooks

This repository uses pre-commit hooks to run Ruff checks and formatting before each commit.

Set up once after cloning:

1. Install dependencies:
   `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Install hooks:
   `pre-commit install`

Run hooks manually at any time:

`pre-commit run --all-files`

## Supabase Secrets Setup

LoreSmith uses Streamlit secrets for the Supabase Postgres connection string.

1. Create the secrets file:
   `.streamlit/secrets.toml`
2. Add in the required Supabase values

Expected format:

`[supabase]`
`db_url = "postgresql://postgres:[YOUR_DB_PASSWORD]@db.[YOUR_PROJECT_REF].supabase.co:5432/postgres"`

For Streamlit Community Cloud, add the same values in App settings under Secrets.

---

## Sprint Discipline

- No direct commits to `main` or `dev`.
- All work must flow through Pull Requests.
- Scope changes during sprint must be agreed upon before merging.

Commit message:

Added test data script and updated docs

README.md, after:

# LoreSmith

LoreSmith is a lightweight campaign management tool for tabletop RPG Dungeon Masters. It is built in **Python** using **Streamlit** and developed iteratively using **Agile Scrum practices**.

The goal of LoreSmith is to provide a structured way to manage campaign elements such as NPCs, factions, session logs, relationships, and narrative timelines, while delivering value incrementally through short development sprints.

---

## Features (Planned)

- NPC management (create, view, edit, delete)
- Faction management and character associations
- Session logging and tagging
- Filtering and search
- Relationship visualization
- Campaign timeline view
- Persistent local data storage

---

## Tech Stack

- Python
- Streamlit
- GitHub Projects (Agile backlog and sprint tracking)

---

## Development Approach

LoreSmith is being developed as part of a graduate-level Agile Software Development course. The project follows Scrum practices, including:

- User role modeling
- User stories with acceptance criteria
- Story point estimation (Fibonacci scale)
- Backlog prioritization (quantitative + qualitative)
- Sprint planning and reviews
- Velocity tracking and burndown charts
- Iterative releases

The focus of this project is not only the working software, but also the disciplined application of Agile principles and artifacts.

---

## Status

Active development – Sprint 0 (Setup & Backlog Creation)

# Contributing to LoreSmith

LoreSmith uses a lightweight Git workflow designed to support Agile development while protecting production stability.

## Branch Strategy

### main

- Production branch.
- Streamlit deployment is tied to this branch.
- Always stable and demo-ready.
- Protected: requires Pull Request and 1 approval.

### dev

- Integration branch for the active sprint.
- All completed stories are merged here first.
- Used to test feature integration before release.
- Protected: requires Pull Request and 1 approval.

### feature branches

- All development work occurs on feature branches.
- Branch naming convention:

    feature/<short-description>

    Examples:
    - feature/create-npc
    - feature/edit-npc
    - feature/db-connection

Feature branches are created from `dev`.

---

## Workflow

1. Create a feature branch from `dev`.
2. Implement the story.
3. Open a Pull Request into `dev`.
4. Obtain 1 approval.
5. Merge into `dev`.
6. When the sprint is complete and `dev` is stable:
    - Open a Pull Request from `dev` into `main`.
    - Obtain 1 approval.
    - Merge to release.

---

## Definition of Done

A story may be merged into `dev` only when:

- All acceptance criteria are satisfied.
- Code runs locally without errors.
- Database changes (if applicable) are documented.
- Tasks in the issue are completed.
- Another contributor has reviewed and approved the PR.

Only stable, demo-ready increments are merged from `dev` to `main`.

---

## Commit Guidelines

- Keep commits small and focused.
- Write meaningful commit messages.
- Do not commit secrets or credentials.
- Use Streamlit secrets configuration for sensitive values.

## Pre-Commit Hooks

This repository uses pre-commit hooks to run Ruff checks and formatting before each commit.

Set up once after cloning:

1. Install dependencies:
   `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Install hooks:
   `pre-commit install`

Run hooks manually at any time:

`pre-commit run --all-files`

## Supabase Secrets Setup

LoreSmith uses Streamlit secrets for the Supabase Postgres connection string.

1. Create the secrets file:
   `.streamlit/secrets.toml`
2. Add in the required Supabase values

Expected format:

`[supabase]`
`db_url = "postgresql://postgres:[YOUR_DB_PASSWORD]@db.[YOUR_PROJECT_REF].supabase.co:5432/postgres"`

For Streamlit Community Cloud, add the same values in App settings under Secrets.

## Test Data Seeding

To populate the database with sample NPCs for development and testing:

```bash
python -m app.utils.seed_data
```

This script inserts 5 reference NPCs (Aldric the Wise, Lyra Shadowblade, Brother Thorne, Mira Stoneheart, and Lord Vex) into the database. Use this to quickly populate test data without manual entry.

The seed script is safe to run multiple times; it appends new records each time.

---

## Sprint Discipline

- No direct commits to `main` or `dev`.
- All work must flow through Pull Requests.
- Scope changes during sprint must be agreed upon before merging.
